feat: apify actors integration (#1)
MQ37/langflow: docs/docs/Integrations/Apify/integrations-apify.md

---
title: Apify
slug: /integrations-apify
---

# Integrate Apify with Langflow

> [Apify](https://apify.com/) is a platform that enables you to automate web scraping, data extraction, and other tasks using Apify Actors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Apify](https://apify.com/) is a web scraping and data extraction platform. It provides an app store with more than a three thounds ready-made cloud tools called Actors.```

Author: committed the suggestion

The Apify components allow you to run Apify Actors in your flow to accomplish tasks such as:

- Crawling websites and extracting text content
- Scraping social media platforms like Instagram and Facebook
- Extracting data from Google Maps
- Inserting data into a PostgreSQL/MySQL/MSSQL database
- Running various other automation tasks

More info about Apify:

- [Website](https://apify.com/)
- [Apify Store](https://apify.com/store)
- [Actor Whitepaper](https://whitepaper.actor/)

## Prerequisites

You need an **Apify API token**. You can create a free account on [Apify](https://apify.com/) and generate your API key in the Apify Console. [Get a Free API key here](https://docs.apify.com/platform/integrations/api).

Enter the key in the *Apify Token* field in all components that require the key.

## Example flow

> This example flow demonstrates the use of multiple Apify Actors to complete a comprehensive web scraping task. The flow includes a Google Search Results Scraper Actor that extracts search results from Google and a TikTok Data Extractor Actor that gathers data from TikTok. Initially, the agent collects social media links related to an entity (person, company, etc.) from Google. It then utilizes the TikTok Data Extractor to retrieve data and videos from the corresponding TikTok profile.

Reviewer: This is nice, but I would always start with a simple thing and then continue with a more complicated one.

Flow 1 - simple flow with WCC, perhaps saving data somewhere/ printing
Flow 2 - use multiple Actors. Please provide a URL links to Actors. Every backlink counts

Author: added simple flow without an agent and also simple flow with single actor with an agent

## Components

### Apify Actors

This component allows you to run Apify Actors in your flow. It can be used manually by providing run input or integrated as a tool for an AI Agent. When used with an AI Agent, the agent can leverage the Apify Actors to perform various tasks.

- **Input**:
    - Apify Token: Your API key.
    - Actor: The Apify Actor to run. Example: `apify/website-content-crawler`.
    - Run Input: The JSON input for configuring the Actor run.

- **Output**:
    - Actor Run Result: The JSON response containing the output of the Actor run.

- **Manual Usage**:
    - Create the Apify Actors component.
    - Input the Apify Token, an Actor ID, and configure the Run Input JSON.
      - Example input can be obtained from the Actor documentation Input section in the JSON Example tab. See [Website Content Crawler](https://apify.com/apify/website-content-crawler/input-schema).
    - Run the component manually to retrieve data.

- **AI Agent Integration**:
    - Create the Apify Actors component.
    - Input the Apify Token and an Actor ID.
    - Connect the component Tool output to the Agent, allowing it to trigger the Actor as needed.

> ## Popular Apify Actors

Reviewer: I'm not sure whether they will be happy with this long list of Actors.

Rather than proving a list of Actors, provide an example how to use them in Langflow. How to set it up, what are input values etc

Author: removed the actors list and provided simple and short how to example, more detailed one can be published to docs.apify.com, does it make sense?

### Website Content Crawler
**Actor ID:** `apify/website-content-crawler`

> Crawl websites and extract text content to feed AI models, LLM applications, vector databases, or RAG pipelines. Supports rich formatting using Markdown, cleans HTML, downloads files, and integrates with tools like LangChain and LlamaIndex.

Reviewer: LangChain, LlamaIndex are competitors, they won't be happy with that

Author: removed the actor list

Enter the key in the *Apify Token* field in all components that require the key.

## Example flows

### Extract website content in Markdown format

> This example flow demonstrates the use of the Apify Actors component to extract text content from a website in Markdown format. The flow includes a [Website Content Crawler Actor](https://apify.com/apify/website-content-crawler) that extracts text content from a website. The extracted content can then be used for various purposes in your flow.

Reviewer: I would not use this dummy sentence "This example flow demonstrates the use of the Apify Actors component to extract text content from a website in Markdown format"

What about?

 Use [Website Content Crawler Actor](https://apify.com/apify/website-content-crawler) to extract text and Markdown content from a website and process it in your flow.

![Apify Flow - Website Content Crawler](./apify_flow_wcc.png)

> ### Simple example with Agent

Reviewer: You need to explain a difference w.r.t to previous example.
Also, instead of `### Simple example with Agent` be specific. By reading the title I should be clear what it does

This example flow demonstrates the use of the Apify Actors component to run a simple web scraping task. The flow includes a [Website Content Crawler Actor](https://apify.com/apify/website-content-crawler) that extracts text content from a website. The agent triggers the Actor to scrape the website and retrieve the content, which can then be summarized or analyzed by the agent in the chat.
![Apify Agent Flow - Simple](./apify_agent_flow_simple.png)

> ### Multiple Apify Actors with Agent

Reviewer: Again, be specific with the title

> This example flow demonstrates the use of multiple Apify Actors to complete a comprehensive web scraping task. The flow includes a [Google Search Results Scraper Actor](https://apify.com/apify/google-search-scraper) that extracts search results from Google and a [TikTok Data Extractor Actor](https://apify.com/clockworks/free-tiktok-scraper) that gathers data from TikTok. Initially, the agent collects social media links related to an entity (person, company, etc.) from Google. It then utilizes the TikTok Data Extractor to retrieve data and videos from the corresponding TikTok profile.

Reviewer: Again, do not start with this example .....
